        REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA




     BASIC CONDITIONS OF
      EMPLOYMENT ACT




No    , 1997
                                     ACT
To give effect to the right to fair labour practices referred to in section 23(1) of the
Constitution by establishing and making provision for the regulation of basic
conditions of employment; and thereby to comply with the obligations of the
Republic as a member state of the International Labour Organisation; and to
provide for matters connected therewith.




B   E IT ENACTED by the Parliament of the Republic of South Africa as
      follows:—

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                  CHAPTER ONE

                   Definitions, purpose and application of this Act                        5

      1.   Definitions
      2.   Purpose of this Act
      3.   Application of this Act
      4.   Inclusion of provisions in contracts of employment
      5.   This Act not affected by agreements                                             10

                                  CHAPTER TWO

                             Regulation of working time

     6.    Application of this Chapter
     7.    Regulation of working time
     8.    Interpretation of day                                                           15
     9.    Ordinary hours of work
    10.    Overtime
    11.    Compressed working week
    12.    Averaging of hours of work
    13.    Determination of hours of work by Minister                                      20
    14.    Meal intervals
    15.    Daily and weekly rest period
    16.    Pay for work on Sundays
    17.    Night work
    18.    Public holidays                                                                 25

                                 CHAPTER THREE

                                         Leave

    19.    Application of this Chapter
    20.    Annual leave
    21.    Pay for annual leave                                                            30
    22.    Sick leave
                                      3

23.   Proof of incapacity
24.   Application to occupational accidents or diseases
25.   Maternity leave
26.   Protection of employees before and after birth of a child
27.   Family responsibility leave                                     5
                             CHAPTER FOUR
                Particulars of employment and remuneration
28.   Application of this Chapter
29.   Written particulars of employment
30.   Informing employees of their rights                             10
31.   Keeping of records
32.   Payment of remuneration
33.   Information about remuneration
34.   Deductions and other acts concerning remuneration
35.   Calculation of remuneration and wages                           15
                              CHAPTER FIVE
                         Termination of employment
36.   Application of this Chapter
37.   Notice of termination of employment
38.   Payment instead of notice                                       20
39.   Employees in accommodation provided by employers
40.   Payments on termination
41.   Severance pay
42.   Certificate of service
                              CHAPTER SIX                             25
         Prohibition of employment of children and forced labour
43.   Prohibition of employment of children
44.   Employment of children of 15 years or older
45.   Medical examinations
46.   Prohibitions                                                    30
47.   Evidence of age
48.   Prohibition of forced labour
                            CHAPTER SEVEN
                Variation of basic conditions of employment
49. Variation by agreement                                            35
50. Variation by Minister
                            CHAPTER EIGHT
                           Sectoral determinations
51.   Sectoral determination
52.   Investigation                                                   40
53.   Conduct of investigation
54.   Preparation of report
55.   Making of sectoral determination
56.   Period of operation of sectoral determination
57.   Legal effect of sectoral determination                          45
58.   Employer to keep a copy of sectoral determination
                             CHAPTER NINE
                    Employment Conditions Commission
59. Establishment and functions of Employment Conditions Commission
60. Composition of Commission                                         50
                                          4

    61. Public hearings
    62. Report by Commission

                                 CHAPTER TEN

                  Monitoring, enforcement and legal proceedings

    63.   Appointment of labour inspectors                                       5
    64.   Functions of labour inspectors
    65.   Powers of entry
    66.   Powers to question and inspect
    67.   Co-operation with labour inspectors
    68.   Securing an undertaking                                               10
    69.   Compliance order
    70.   Limitations
    71.   Objections to compliance order
    72.   Appeals from order of Director-General
    73.   Order may be made order of Labour Court                               15
    74.   Consolidation of proceedings
    75.   Payment of interest
    76.   Proof of compliance
    77.   Jurisdiction of Labour Court
    78.   Rights of employees                                                   20
    79.   Protection of rights
    80.   Procedure for disputes
    81.   Burden of proof

                               CHAPTER ELEVEN
                                      General                                   25
    82.   Temporary employment services
    83.   Deeming of persons as employees
    84.   Duration of employment
    85.   Delegation
    86.   Regulations                                                           30
    87.   Codes of Good Practice
    88.   Minister’s power to add and change footnotes
    89.   Representation of employees or employers
    90.   Confidentiality
    91.   Answers not to be used in criminal prosecutions                       35
    92.   Obstruction, undue influence and fraud
    93.   Penalties
    94.   This Act binds the State
    95.   Transitional arrangements and amendment and repeal of laws
    96.   Short title and commencement                                          40

                                   SCHEDULES

Schedule One: Procedures for progressive reduction of maximum working hours
Schedule Two: Maximum permissible fees that may be imposed for failure to comply
                with this Act
Schedule Three: Transitional provisions                                          45
Schedule Four: Laws repealed by section 95(5)

                                 CHAPTER ONE
                  Definitions, purpose and application of this Act
Definitions

  1. In this Act, unless the context indicates otherwise—                       50
     ‘‘agreement’’ includes a collective agreement;
     ‘‘area’’ includes any number of areas, whether or not contiguous;
                                                  5

     ‘‘bargaining council’’ means a bargaining council registered in terms of the Labour
     Relations Act, 1995, and, in relation to the public service, includes the bargaining
     councils referred to in section 35 of that Act;
     ‘‘basic condition of employment’’ means a provision of this Act or sectoral
     determination that stipulates a minimum term or condition of employment;                  5
     ‘‘CCMA’’ means the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration
     established in terms of section 112 of the Labour Relations Act, 1995;
     ‘‘child’’ means a person who is under 18 years of age;
     ‘‘code of good practice’’ means a code of good practice issued by the Minister in
     terms of section 87 of this Act;                                                          10
     ‘‘collective agreement’’ means a written agreement concerning terms and
     conditions of employment or any other matter of mutual interest concluded by one
     or more registered trade unions, on the one hand and, on the other hand—
     (a) one or more employers;
     (b) one or more registered employers’ organisations; or                                   15
     (c) one or more employers and one or more registered employers’ organisation;
     ‘‘Commission’’ means the Employment Conditions Commission established by
     section 59(1);
     ‘‘compliance order’’ means a compliance order issued by a labour inspector in
     terms of section 69(1);                                                                   20
     ‘‘Constitution’’ means the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act
     No. 108 of 1996);
     ‘‘council’’ includes a bargaining council and a statutory council;
     ‘‘Department’’ means the Department of Labour;
     ‘‘Director-General’’ means the Director-General of Labour;                                25
     ‘‘dispute’’ includes an alleged dispute;
     ‘‘domestic worker’’ means an employee who performs domestic work in the home
     of his or her employer and includes—
     (a) a gardener;
     (b) a person employed by a household as driver of a motor vehicle; and                    30
     (c) a person who takes care of children, the aged, the sick, the frail or the disabled,
     but does not include a farm worker;
     ‘‘employee’’ means—
     (a) any person, excluding an independent contractor, who works for another
           person or for the State and who receives, or is entitled to receive, any            35
           remuneration; and
     (b) any other person who in any manner assists in carrying on or conducting the
           business of an employer,
     and ‘‘employed’’ and ‘‘employment’’ have a corresponding meaning;1
     ‘‘employers’ organisation’’ means any number of employers associated together for         40
     the purpose, whether by itself or with other purposes, of regulating relations
     between employers and employees or trade unions;
     ‘‘employment law’’ includes this Act, any other Act the administration of which has
     been assigned to the Minister, and any of the following Acts:
     (a) The Unemployment Insurance Act, 1966 (Act No. 30 of 1966);                            45
     (b) the Manpower Training Act, 1981 (Act No. 56 of 1981);
     (c) the Guidance and Placement Act, 1981 (Act No. 62 of 1981);
     (d) the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 (Act No. 85 of 1993);
     (e) the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, 1993 (Act No.
           130 of 1993);                                                                       50
     ‘‘farm worker’’ means an employee who is employed mainly in or in connection
     with farming activities, and includes an employee who wholly or mainly performs
     domestic work in a home on a farm;
     ‘‘Labour Appeal Court’’ means the Labour Appeal Court established by section 167
     of the Labour Relations Act, 1995;                                                        55
     ‘‘Labour Court’’ means the Labour Court established by section 151 of the Labour
     Relations Act, 1995;




1. ‘‘Employee’’ is given a specific meaning in section 82(1).
                                                  6

     ‘‘labour inspector’’ means a labour inspector appointed under section 63, and
     includes any person designated by the Minister under that section to perform any
     function of a labour inspector;
     ‘‘Labour Relations Act, 1995’’ means the Labour Relations Act, 1995 (Act No. 66
     of 1995);                                                                                5
     ‘‘medical practitioner’’ means a person entitled to practise as a medical practitioner
     in terms of section 17 of the Medical, Dental and Supplementary Health Service
     Professions Act, 1974 (Act No. 56 of 1974);
     ‘‘midwife’’ means a person registered or enrolled to practise as a midwife in terms
     of section 16 of the Nursing Act, 1978 (Act No. 50 of 1978);                             10
     ‘‘Minister’’ means the Minister of Labour;
     ‘‘month’’ means a calendar month;
     ‘‘NEDLAC’’ means the National Economic, Development and Labour Council
     established by section 2 of the National Economic, Development and Labour
     Council Act, 1994 (Act No. 35 of 1994);                                                  15
     ‘‘ordinary hours of work’’ means the hours of work permitted in terms of section 9
     or in terms of any agreement in terms of sections 11 or 12;
     ‘‘overtime’’ means the time that an employee works during a day or a week in
     excess of ordinary hours of work;
     ‘‘prescribe’’ means to prescribe by regulation and ‘‘prescribed’’ has a correspond-      20
     ing meaning;
     ‘‘public holiday’’ means any day that is a public holiday in terms of the Public
     Holidays Act, 1994 (Act No. 36 of 1994);
     ‘‘public service’’ means the public service referred to in section 1(1) of the Public
     Service Act, 1994 (Proclamation No. 103 of 1994), and includes any organisational        25
     component contemplated in section 7(4) of that Act and specified in the first
     column of Schedule 2 to that Act, but excluding—
     (a) the members of the National Defence Force;
     (b) the National Intelligence Agency; and
     (c) the South African Secret Service;                                                    30
     ‘‘registered employers’ organisation’’ means an employers’ organisation registered
     under section 96 of the Labour Relations Act, 1995;
     ‘‘registered trade union’’ means a trade union registered under section 96 of the
     Labour Relations Act, 1995;
     ‘‘remuneration’’ means any payment in money or in kind, or both in money and in          35
     kind, made or owing to any person in return for that person working for any other
     person, including the State, and ‘‘remunerate’’ has a corresponding meaning;2
     ‘‘sector’’ means an industry or a service or a part of an industry or a service;
     ‘‘sectoral determination’’ means a sectoral determination made under Chapter
     Eight;                                                                                   40
     ‘‘senior managerial employee’’ means an employee who has the authority to hire,
     discipline and dismiss employees and to represent the employer internally and
     externally;
     ‘‘serve’’ means to send by registered post, telegram, telex, telefax or deliver by
     hand;                                                                                    45
     ‘‘statutory council’’ means a council established under Part E of Chapter III of the
     Labour Relations Act, 1995;
     ‘‘temporary employment service’’ means any person who, for reward, procures for,
     or provides to, a client, other persons—
     (a) who render services to, or perform work for, the client; and                         50
     (b) who are remunerated by the temporary employment service;
     ‘‘this Act’’ includes the Schedules and any regulation made under this Act, but does
     not include the headings or footnotes;
     ‘‘trade union’’ means an association of employees whose principal purpose is to
     regulate relations between employees and employers, including any employers’             55
     organisations;
     ‘‘trade union official’’ includes an official of a federation of trade unions;
     ‘‘trade union representative’’ means a trade union representative who is entitled to
     exercise the rights contemplated in section 14 of the Labour Relations Act, 1995;



2. ‘‘Remuneration’’ is given a specific meaning in section 35(5).
                                           7

     ‘‘wage’’ means the amount of money paid or payable to an employee in respect of
     ordinary hours of work or, if they are shorter, the hours an employee ordinarily
     works in a day or week;
     ‘‘week’’ in relation to an employee, means the period of seven days within which
     the working week of that employee ordinarily falls;                                  5
     ‘‘workplace’’ means any place where employees work;
     ‘‘workplace forum’’ means a workplace forum established under Chapter V of the
     Labour Relations Act, 1995.

Purpose of this Act

   2. The purpose of this Act is to advance economic development and social justice by 10
fulfilling the primary objects of this Act which are—
      (a) to give effect to and regulate the right to fair labour practices conferred by
            section 23(1) of the Constitution—
             (i) by establishing and enforcing basic conditions of employment; and
            (ii) by regulating the variation of basic conditions of employment;           15
      (b) to give effect to obligations incurred by the Republic as a member state of the
            International Labour Organisation.

Application of this Act

   3. (1) This Act applies to all employees and employers except—
      (a) members of the National Defence Force, the National Intelligence Agency 20
           and the South African Secret Service; and
      (b) unpaid volunteers working for an organisation serving a charitable purpose.
   (2) This Act applies to persons undergoing vocational training except to the extent
that any term or condition of their employment is regulated by the provisions of any
other law.                                                                               25
   (3) This Act, except section 41, does not apply to persons employed on vessels at sea
in respect of which the Merchant Shipping Act, 1951 (Act No. 57 of 1951), applies
except to the extent provided for in a sectoral determination.

Inclusion of provisions in contracts of employment

  4. A basic condition of employment constitutes a term of any contract of employment 30
except to the extent that—
     (a) any other law provides a term that is more favourable to the employee;
     (b) the basic condition of employment has been replaced, varied, or excluded in
          accordance with the provisions of this Act; or
     (c) a term of the contract of employment is more favourable to the employee than 35
          the basic condition of employment.

This Act not affected by agreements

  5. This Act or anything done under it takes precedence over any agreement, whether
entered into before or after the commencement of this Act.

                                  CHAPTER TWO                                            40

                             Regulation of working time

Application of this Chapter

  6. (1) This Chapter, except section 7, does not apply to—
     (a) senior managerial employees;
     (b) employees engaged as sales staff who travel to the premises of customers and 45
          who regulate their own hours of work;
     (c) employees who work less than 24 hours a month for an employer.
                                                    8

  (2) Sections 9, 10(1), 14(1), 15(1), 17(2) and 18(1) do not apply to work which is
required to be done without delay owing to circumstances for which the employer could
not reasonably have been expected to make provision and which cannot be performed by
employees during their ordinary hours of work.
  (3) The Minister must, on the advice of the Commission, make a determination that 5
excludes the application of this Chapter or any provision of it to any category of
employees earning in excess of an amount stated in that determination.
  (4) Before the Minister issues a notice in terms of subsection (3), the Minister must—
     (a) publish in the Gazette a draft of the proposed notice; and
     (b) invite interested persons to submit written representations on the proposed 10
          notice within a reasonable period.

Regulation of working time

   7. Every employer must regulate the working time of each employee—
      (a) in accordance with the provisions of any Act governing occupational health
          and safety;                                                                15
      (b) with due regard to the health and safety of employees;
      (c) with due regard to the Code of Good Practice on the Regulation of Working
          Time3 issued under section 87(1)(a); and
      (d) with due regard to the family responsibilities of employees.

Interpretation of day                                                                                         20

 8. For the purposes of sections 9, 10 and 11, ‘‘day’’ means a period of 24 hours
measured from the time when the employee normally commences work.

Ordinary hours of work

  9. (1) Subject to this Chapter, an employer may not require or permit an employee to
work more than—                                                                         25
     (a) 45 hours in any week; and
     (b) nine hours in any day if the employee works for five days or fewer in a week;
          or
     (c) eight hours in any day if the employee works on more than five days in a week.
  (2) An employee’s ordinary hours of work in terms of subsection (1) may by 30
agreement be extended by up to 15 minutes in a day but not more than 60 minutes in a
week to enable an employee whose duties include serving members of the public to
continue performing those duties after the completion of ordinary hours of work.
  (3) Schedule 1 establishes procedures for the progressive reduction of the maximum
ordinary hours of work to a maximum of 40 ordinary hours of work per week and eight 35
ordinary hours of work per day.

Overtime

  10. (1) Subject to this Chapter, an employer may not require or permit an employee—
     (a) to work overtime except in accordance with an agreement;
     (b) to work more than—                                                           40
           (i) three hours’ overtime a day; or
          (ii) ten hours’ overtime a week.
  (2) An employer must pay an employee at least one and one-half times the employee’s
wage for overtime worked.
  (3) Despite subsection (2), an agreement may provide for an employer to—            45




3. The Code of Good Practice issued by the Minister of Labour under section 87(1)(a) will contain
   provisions concerning the arrangement of work and, in particular, its impact upon the health, safety and
   welfare of employees. Issues that would be included are shift work, night work, rest periods during
   working time, family responsibilities and work by children.
                                          9

      (a) pay an employee not less than the employee’s ordinary wage for overtime
           worked and grant the employee at least 30 minutes’ time off on full pay for
           every hour of overtime worked; or
      (b) grant an employee at least 90 minutes’ paid time off for each hour of overtime
           worked.                                                                       5
   (4) (a) An employer must grant paid time off in terms of subsection (3) within one
month of the employee becoming entitled to it.
   (b) An agreement in writing may increase the period contemplated by paragraph (a)
to 12 months.
   (5) An agreement concluded in terms of subsection (1) with an employee when the 10
employee commences employment, or during the first three months of employment,
lapses after one year.

Compressed working week

  11. (1) An agreement in writing may require or permit an employee to work up to
twelve hours in a day, inclusive of the meal intervals required in terms of section 14, 15
without receiving overtime pay.
  (2) An agreement in terms of subsection (1) may not require or permit an employee to
work—
     (a) more than 45 ordinary hours of work in any week;
     (b) more than ten hours’ overtime in any week; or                                  20
     (c) on more than five days in any week.

Averaging of hours of work

   12. (1) Despite sections 9(1) and (2) and 10(1)(b), the ordinary hours of work and
overtime of an employee may be averaged over a period of up to four months in terms
of a collective agreement.                                                             25
   (2) An employer may not require or permit an employee who is bound by a collective
agreement in terms of subsection (1) to work more than—
      (a) an average of 45 ordinary hours of work in a week over the agreed period;
      (b) an average of five hours’ overtime in a week over the agreed period.
   (3) A collective agreement in terms of subsection (1) lapses after 12 months.       30
   (4) Subsection (3) only applies to the first two collective agreements concluded in
terms of subsection (1).

Determination of hours of work by Minister

  13. (1) Despite this Chapter, the Minister, on grounds of health and safety, may
prescribe by regulation the maximum permitted hours of work, including overtime, that 35
any category of employee may work—
     (a) daily, weekly or during any other period specified in the regulation; and
     (b) during a continuous period without a break.
  (2) A regulation in terms of subsection (1) may not prescribe maximum hours in
excess of those permitted in sections 9 and 10.                                         40
  (3) A regulation in terms of subsection (1) may be made only—
     (a) on the advice of the chief inspector appointed in terms of section 27 of the
          Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993 (Act No. 85 of 1993), or the chief
          inspector appointed in terms of section 48 of the Mine Health and Safety Act,
          1996 (Act No. 29 of 1996); and                                                45
     (b) after consulting the Commission.

Meal intervals

   14. (1) An employer must give an employee who works continuously for more than
five hours a meal interval of at least one continuous hour.
   (2) During a meal interval the employee may be required or permitted to perform only 50
duties that cannot be left unattended and cannot be performed by another employee.
                                           10

  (3) An employee must be remunerated—
     (a) for a meal interval in which the employee is required to work or is required to
          be available for work; and
     (b) for any portion of a meal interval that is in excess of 75 minutes, unless the
          employee lives on the premises at which the workplace is situated.             5
  (4) For the purposes of subsection (1), work is continuous unless it is interrupted by
an interval of at least 60 minutes.
  (5) An agreement in writing may—
     (a) reduce the meal interval to not less than 30 minutes;
     (b) dispense with a meal interval for an employee who works fewer than six hours 10
          on a day.

Daily and weekly rest period

  15. (1) An employer must allow an employee—
     (a) a daily rest period of at least twelve consecutive hours between ending and
          recommencing work; and                                                       15
     (b) a weekly rest period of at least 36 consecutive hours which, unless otherwise
          agreed, must include Sunday.
  (2) A daily rest period in terms of subsection (1)(a) may, by written agreement, be
reduced to 10 hours for an employee—
     (a) who lives on the premises at which the workplace is situated; and             20
     (b) whose meal interval lasts for at least three hours.
  (3) Despite subsection (1)(b), an agreement in writing may provide for—
     (a) a rest period of at least 60 consecutive hours every two weeks; or
     (b) an employee’s weekly rest period to be reduced by up to eight hours in any
          week if the rest period in the following week is extended equivalently.      25

Pay for work on Sundays

   16. (1) An employer must pay an employee who works on a Sunday at double the
employee’s wage for each hour worked, unless the employee ordinarily works on a
Sunday, in which case the employer must pay the employee at one and one-half times the
employee’s wage for each hour worked.                                                        30
   (2) If an employee works less than the employee’s ordinary shift on a Sunday and the
payment that the employee is entitled to in terms of subsection (1) is less than the
employee’s ordinary daily wage, the employer must pay the employee the employee’s
ordinary daily wage.
   (3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), an agreement may permit an employer to grant an      35
employee who works on a Sunday paid time off equivalent to the difference in value
between the pay received by the employee for working on the Sunday and the pay that
the employee is entitled to in terms of subsections (1) and (2).
   (4) Any time worked on a Sunday by an employee who does not ordinarily work on
a Sunday is not taken into account in calculating an employee’s ordinary hours of work       40
in terms of section 9(1) and (2), but is taken into account in calculating the overtime
worked by the employee in terms of section 10(1)(b).
   (5) If a shift worked by an employee falls on a Sunday and another day, the whole shift
is deemed to have been worked on the Sunday, unless the greater portion of the shift was
worked on the other day, in which case the whole shift is deemed to have been worked         45
on the other day.
   (6) (a) An employer must grant paid time off in terms of subsection (3) within one
month of the employee becoming entitled to it.
   (b) An agreement in writing may increase the period contemplated by paragraph (a)
to 12 months.                                                                                50

Night work

  17. (1) In this section, ‘‘night work’’ means work performed after 18:00 and before
06:00 the next day.
                                                 11

(2) An employer may only require or permit an employee to perform night work, if so
agreed, and if—
      (a) the employee is compensated by the payment of an allowance, which may be
           a shift allowance, or by a reduction of working hours; and
      (b) transportation is available between the employee’s place of residence and the                   5
           workplace at the commencement and conclusion of the employee’s shift.
   (3) An employer who requires an employee to perform work on a regular basis after
23:00 and before 06:00 the next day must—
      (a) inform the employee in writing, or orally if the employee is not able to
           understand a written communication, in a language that the employee                            10
           understands—
            (i) of any health and safety hazards associated with the work that the
                employee is required to perform; and
           (ii) of the employee’s right to undergo a medical examination in terms of
                paragraph (b);                                                                            15
      (b) at the request of the employee, enable the employee to undergo a medical
           examination, for the account of the employer, concerning those hazards—
            (i) before the employee starts, or within a reasonable period of the employee
                starting, such work; and
           (ii) at appropriate intervals while the employee continues to perform such                     20
                work; and
      (c) transfer the employee to suitable day work within a reasonable time if—
            (i) the employee suffers from a health condition associated with the
                performance of night work; and
           (ii) it is practicable for the employer to do so.                                              25
   (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), an employee works on a regular basis if the
employee works for a period of longer than one hour after 23:00 and before 06:00 at
least five times per month or 50 times per year.
   (5) The Minister may, after consulting the Commission, make regulations relating to
the conduct of medical examinations for employees who perform night work.4

Public holidays5                                                                                          30

   18. (1) An employer may not require an employee to work on a public holiday except
in accordance with an agreement.
   (2) If a public holiday falls on a day on which an employee would ordinarily work, an
employer must pay—                                                                         35
      (a) an employee who does not work on the public holiday, at least the wage that
            the employee would ordinarily have received for work on that day;
      (b) an employee who does work on the public holiday—
             (i) at least double the amount referred to in paragraph (a); or
            (ii) if it is greater, the amount referred to in paragraph (a) plus the amount 40
                 earned by the employee for the time worked on that day.
   (3) If an employee works on a public holiday on which the employee would not
ordinarily work, the employer must pay that employee an amount equal to—
      (a) the employee’s ordinary daily wage; plus
      (b) the amount earned by the employee for the work performed that day, whether 45
            calculated by reference to time worked or any other method.
   (4) An employer must pay an employee for a public holiday on the employee’s usual
pay day.
   (5) If a shift worked by an employee falls on a public holiday and another day, the
whole shift is deemed to have been worked on the public holiday, but if the greater
portion of the shift was worked on the other day, the whole shift is deemed to have been
worked on the other day.




4. Section 90 protects the confidentiality of any medical examination conducted in terms of this Act.
5. In terms of section 2(2) of the Public Holidays Act, 1994 (Act No. 36 of 1994), a public holiday is
   exchangeable for any other day which is fixed by agreement or agreed to between the employer and the
   employee.
                                           12

                                 CHAPTER THREE

                                         Leave

Application of this Chapter

  19. (1) This Chapter does not apply to an employee who works less than 24 hours a
month for an employer.                                                                       5
  (2) Unless an agreement provides otherwise, this Chapter does not apply to leave
granted to an employee in excess of the employee’s entitlement under this Chapter.

Annual leave

   20. (1) In this Chapter, ‘‘annual leave cycle’’ means the period of 12 months’
employment with the same employer immediately following—                                    10
      (a) an employee’s commencement of employment; or
      (b) the completion of that employee’s prior leave cycle.
   (2) An employer must grant an employee at least—
      (a) 21 consecutive days’ annual leave on full remuneration in respect of each
           annual leave cycle; or                                                           15
      (b) by agreement, one day of annual leave on full remuneration for every 17 days
           on which the employee worked or was entitled to be paid;
      (c) by agreement, one hour of annual leave on full remuneration for every 17
           hours on which the employee worked or was entitled to be paid.
   (3) An employee is entitled to take leave accumulated in an annual leave cycle in        20
terms of subsection (2) on consecutive days.
   (4) An employer must grant annual leave not later than six months after the end of the
annual leave cycle.
   (5) An employer may not require or permit an employee to take annual leave during—
      (a) any other period of leave to which the employee is entitled in terms of this      25
           Chapter; or
      (b) any period of notice of termination of employment.
   (6) Despite subsection (5), an employer must permit an employee, at the employee’s
written request, to take leave during a period of unpaid leave.
   (7) An employer may reduce an employee’s entitlement to annual leave by the number       30
of days of occasional leave on full remuneration granted to the employee at the
employee’s request in that leave cycle.
   (8) An employer must grant an employee an additional day of paid leave if a public
holiday falls on a day during an employee’s annual leave on which the employee would
ordinarily have worked.                                                                     35
   (9) An employer may not require or permit an employee to work for the employer
during any period of annual leave.
   (10) Annual leave must be taken—
      (a) in accordance with an agreement between the employer and employee; or
      (b) if there is no agreement in terms of paragraph (a), at a time determined by the   40
           employer in accordance with this section.
   (11) An employer may not pay an employee instead of granting paid leave in terms of
this section except—
      (a) on termination of employment; and
      (b) in accordance with section 40(b) and (c).                                         45

Pay for annual leave

  21. (1) An employer must pay an employee leave pay at least equivalent to the
remuneration that the employee would have received for working for a period equal to
the period of annual leave, calculated—
     (a) at the employee’s rate of remuneration immediately before the beginning of 50
          the period of annual leave; and
     (b) in accordance with section 35.
                                            13

  (2) An employer must pay an employee leave pay—
     (a) before the beginning of the period of leave; or
     (b) by agreement, on the employee’s usual pay day.

Sick leave

   22. (1) In this Chapter, ‘‘sick leave cycle’’ means the period of 36 months’               5
employment with the same employer immediately following—
      (a) an employee’s commencement of employment; or
      (b) the completion of that employee’s prior sick leave cycle.
   (2) During every sick leave cycle, an employee is entitled to an amount of paid sick
leave equal to the number of days the employee would normally work during a period            10
of six weeks.
   (3) Despite subsection (2), during the first six months of employment, an employee is
entitled to one day’s paid sick leave for every 26 days worked.
   (4) During an employee’s first sick leave cycle, an employer may reduce the
employee’s entitlement to sick leave in terms of subsection (2) by the number of days’        15
sick leave taken in terms of subsection (3).
   (5) Subject to section 23, an employer must pay an employee for a day’s sick leave—
      (a) the wage the employee would ordinarily have received for work on that day;
           and
      (b) on the employee’s usual pay day.                                                    20
   (6) An agreement may reduce the pay to which an employee is entitled in respect of
any day’s absence in terms of this section if—
      (a) the number of days of paid sick leave is increased at least commensurately
           with any reduction in the daily amount of sick pay; and
      (b) the employee’s entitlement to pay—                                                  25
            (i) for any day’s sick leave is at least 75 per cent of the wage payable to the
                employee for the ordinary hours the employee would have worked on
                that day; and
           (ii) for sick leave over the sick leave cycle is at least equivalent to the
                employee’s entitlement in terms of subsection (2).                            30

Proof of incapacity

   23. (1) An employer is not required to pay an employee in terms of section 22 if the
employee has been absent from work for more than two consecutive days or on more
than two occasions during an eight-week period and, on request by the employer, does
not produce a medical certificate stating that the employee was unable to work for the 35
duration of the employee’s absence on account of sickness or injury.
   (2) The medical certificate must be issued and signed by a medical practitioner or any
other person who is certified to diagnose and treat patients and who is registered with a
professional council established by an Act of Parliament.
   (3) If it is not reasonably practicable for an employee who lives on the employer’s 40
premises to obtain a medical certificate, the employer may not withhold payment in
terms of subsection (1) unless the employer provides reasonable assistance to the
employee to obtain the certificate.

Application to occupational accidents or diseases

  24. Sections 22 and 23 do not apply to an inability to work caused by an accident or 45
occupational disease as defined in the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and
Diseases Act, 1993 (Act No. 130 of 1993), or the Occupational Diseases in Mines and
Works Act, 1973 (Act No. 78 of 1973), except in respect of any period during which no
compensation is payable in terms of those Acts.
                                                  14

Maternity leave6

   25. (1) An employee is entitled to at least four consecutive months’ maternity leave.
   (2) An employee may commence maternity leave—
      (a) at any time from four weeks before the expected date of birth, unless
            otherwise agreed; or                                                               5
      (b) on a date from which a medical practitioner or a midwife certifies that it is
            necessary for the employee’s health or that of her unborn child.
   (3) No employee may work for six weeks after the birth of her child, unless a medical
practitioner or midwife certifies that she is fit to do so.
   (4) An employee who has a miscarriage during the third trimester of pregnancy or 10
bears a stillborn child is entitled to maternity leave for six weeks after the miscarriage or
stillbirth, whether or not the employee had commenced maternity leave at the time of the
miscarriage or stillbirth.
   (5) An employee must notify an employer in writing, unless the employee is unable
to do so, of the date on which the employee intends to—                                       15
      (a) commence maternity leave; and
      (b) return to work after maternity leave.
   (6) Notification in terms of subsection (5) must be given—
      (a) at least four weeks before the employee intends to commence maternity leave;
            or                                                                                20
      (b) if it is not reasonably practicable to do so, as soon as is reasonably practicable.
   (7) The payment of maternity benefits will be determined by the Minister subject to
the provisions of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1966 (Act No. 30 of 1966).7

Protection of employees before and after birth of a child

   26. (1) No employer may require or permit a pregnant employee or an employee who 25
is nursing her child to perform work that is hazardous to her health or the health of her
child.8
   (2) During an employee’s pregnancy, and for a period of six months after the birth of
her child, her employer must offer her suitable, alternative employment on terms and
conditions that are no less favourable than her ordinary terms and conditions of 30
employment, if—
      (a) the employee is required to perform night work, as defined in section 17(1) or
           her work poses a danger to her health or safety or that of her child; and
      (b) it is practicable for the employer to do so.

Family responsibility leave                                                                                  35

  27. (1) This section applies to an employee—
     (a) who has been in employment with an employer for longer than four months;
          and
     (b) who works for at least four days a week for that employer.
  (2) An employer must grant an employee, during each annual leave cycle, at the 40
request of the employee, three days’ paid leave, which the employee is entitled to take—
     (a) when the employee’s child is born;
     (b) when the employee’s child is sick; or




6. In terms of section 187(1)(e) of the Labour Relations Act, 1995, the dismissal of an employee on
   account of her pregnancy, intended pregnancy, or any reason related to her pregnancy, is automatically
   unfair. The definition of dismissal in section 186 of the Labour Relations Act, 1995, includes the
   refusal to allow an employee to resume work after she has taken maternity leave in terms of any law,
   collective agreement or her contract.
7. Sections 34 and 37 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1966 (Act No. 30 of 1966), provide for the
   payment of maternity leave. Legislative amendments will be proposed to Cabinet to improve these
   benefits and to provide that the payment to an employee of maternity benefits does not adversely affect
   her right to unemployment benefits.
8. The Minister must issue a Code of Good Practice on the Protection of Employees during Pregnancy
   and after the Birth of a Child in terms of section 87(1)(b).
                                          15

      (c) in the event of the death of—
            (i) the employee’s spouse or life partner; or
           (ii) the employee’s parent, adoptive parent, grandparent, child, adopted
                child, grandchild or sibling.
   (3) Subject to subsection (5), an employer must pay an employee for a day’s family 5
responsibility leave—
      (a) the wage the employee would ordinarily have received for work on that day;
           and
      (b) on the employee’s usual pay day.
   (4) An employee may take family responsibility leave in respect of the whole or a part 10
of a day.
   (5) Before paying an employee for leave in terms of this section, an employer may
require reasonable proof of an event contemplated in subsection (1) for which the leave
was required.
   (6) An employee’s unused entitlement to leave in terms of this section lapses at the 15
end of the annual leave cycle in which it accrues.
   (7) A collective agreement may vary the number of days and the circumstances under
which leave is to be granted in terms of this section.

                                 CHAPTER FOUR

                    Particulars of employment and remuneration                            20

Application of this Chapter

 28. (1) This Chapter does not apply to an employee who works less than 24 hours a
month for an employer.
 (2) Sections 29(1)(n), (o) and (p), 30, 31 and 33 do not apply to—
    (a) an employer who employs fewer than five employees; and                     25
    (b) the employment of a domestic worker.

Written particulars of employment

  29. (1) An employer must supply an employee, when the employee commences
employment, with the following particulars in writing—
     (a) the full name and address of the employer;                                       30
     (b) the name and occupation of the employee, or a brief description of the work
         for which the employee is employed;
     (c) the place of work, and, where the employee is required or permitted to work
         at various places, an indication of this;
     (d) the date on which the employment began;                                          35
     (e) the employee’s ordinary hours of work and days of work;
     (f) the employee’s wage or the rate and method of calculating wages;
     (g) the rate of pay for overtime work;
     (h) any other cash payments that the employee is entitled to;
     (i) any payment in kind that the employee is entitled to and the value of the        40
         payment in kind;
     (j) how frequently remuneration will be paid;
     (k) any deductions to be made from the employee’s remuneration;
     (l) the leave to which the employee is entitled;
     (m) the period of notice required to terminate employment, or if employment is for   45
         a specified period, the date when employment is to terminate;
     (n) a description of any council or sectoral determination which covers the
         employer’s business;
     (o) any period of employment with a previous employer that counts towards the
         employee’s period of employment;                                                 50
     (p) a list of any other documents that form part of the contract of employment,
         indicating a place that is reasonably accessible to the employee where a copy
         of each may be obtained.
  (2) When any matter listed in subsection (1) changes—
     (a) the written particulars must be revised to reflect the change; and               55
                                           16

     (b) the employee must be supplied with a copy of the document reflecting the
           change.
  (3) If an employee is not able to understand the written particulars, the employer must
ensure that they are explained to the employee in a language and in a manner that the
employee understands.                                                                       5
  (4) Written particulars in terms of this section must be kept by the employer for a
period of three years after the termination of employment.

Informing employees of their rights

   30. An employer must display at the workplace where it can be read by employees a
statement in the prescribed form of the employee’s rights under this Act in the official 10
languages which are spoken in the workplace.

Keeping of records

   31. (1) Every employer must keep a record containing at least the following
information:
      (a) The employee’s name and occupation;                                           15
      (b) the time worked by each employee;
      (c) the remuneration paid to each employee;
      (d) the date of birth of any employee under 18 years of age; and
      (e) any other prescribed information.
   (2) A record in terms of subsection (1) must be kept by the employer for a period of 20
three years from the date of the last entry in the record.
   (3) No person may make a false entry in a record maintained in terms of subsection
(1).
   (4) An employer who keeps a record in terms of this section is not required to keep
any other record of time worked and remuneration paid as required by any other 25
employment law.

Payment of remuneration

  32. (1) An employer must pay to an employee any remuneration that is paid in
money—
     (a) in South African currency;                                                   30
     (b) daily, weekly, fortnightly or monthly; and
     (c) in cash, by cheque or by direct deposit into an account designated by the
         employee.
  (2) Any remuneration paid in cash or by cheque must be given to each employee—
     (a) at the workplace or at a place agreed to by the employee;                    35
     (b) during the employee’s working hours or within 15 minutes of the commence-
         ment or conclusion of those hours; and
     (c) in a sealed envelope which becomes the property of the employee.
  (3) An employer must pay remuneration not later than seven days after—
     (a) the completion of the period for which the remuneration is payable; or       40
     (b) the termination of the contract of employment.
  (4) Subsection (3)(b) does not apply to any pension or provident fund payment to an
employee that is made in terms of the rules of the fund.

Information about remuneration

  33. (1) An employer must give an employee the following information in writing on 45
each day the employee is paid:
     (a) The employer’s name and address;
     (b) the employee’s name and occupation;
     (c) the period for which the payment is made;
     (d) the employee’s remuneration in money;                                      50
     (e) the amount and purpose of any deduction made from the remuneration;
     (f) the actual amount paid to the employee; and
     (g) if relevant to the calculation of that employee’s remuneration—
                                           17

           (i) the employee’s rate of remuneration and overtime rate;
          (ii) the number of ordinary and overtime hours worked by the employee
               during the period for which the payment is made;
         (iii) the number of hours worked by the employee on a Sunday or public
               holiday during that period; and                                           5
         (iv) if an agreement to average working time has been concluded in terms of
               section 12, the total number of ordinary and overtime hours worked by
               the employee in the period of averaging.
  (2) The written information required in terms of subsection (1) must be given to each
employee—                                                                               10
     (a) at the workplace or at a place agreed to by the employee; and
     (b) during the employee’s ordinary working hours or within 15 minutes of the
          commencement or conclusion of those hours.

Deductions and other acts concerning remuneration

   34. (1) An employer may not make any deduction from an employee’s remuneration           15
unless—
      (a) subject to subsection (2), the employee in writing agrees to the deduction in
           respect of a debt specified in the agreement; or
      (b) the deduction is required or permitted in terms of a law, collective agreement,
           court order or arbitration award.                                                20
   (2) A deduction in terms of subsection (1)(a) may be made to reimburse an employer
for loss or damage only if—
      (a) the loss or damage occurred in the course of employment and was due to the
           fault of the employee;
      (b) the employer has followed a fair procedure and has given the employee a           25
           reasonable opportunity to show why the deductions should not be made;
      (c) the total amount of the debt does not exceed the actual amount of the loss or
           damage; and
      (d) the total deductions from the employee’s remuneration in terms of this
           subsection do not exceed one-quarter of the employee’s remuneration in           30
           money.
   (3) A deduction in terms of subsection (1)(a) in respect of any goods purchased by the
employee must specify the nature and quantity of the goods.
   (4) An employer who deducts an amount from an employee’s remuneration in terms
of subsection (1) for payment to another person must pay the amount to the person in        35
accordance with the time period and other requirements specified in the agreement, law,
court order or arbitration award.
   (5) An employer may not require or permit an employee to—
      (a) repay any remuneration except for overpayments previously made by the
           employer resulting from an error in calculating the employee’s remuneration;     40
           or
      (b) acknowledge receipt of an amount greater than the remuneration actually
           received.

Calculation of remuneration and wages

  35. (1) An employee’s wage is calculated by reference to the number of hours the 45
employee ordinarily works.
  (2) For the purposes of calculating the wage of an employee by time, an employee is
deemed ordinarily to work—
     (a) 45 hours in a week, unless the employee ordinarily works a lesser number of
          hours in a week;                                                             50
     (b) nine hours in a day, or seven and a half hours in the case of an employee who
          works for more than five days a week, or the number of hours that an
          employee works in a day in terms of an agreement concluded in accordance
          with section 11, unless the employee ordinarily works a lesser number of
          hours in a day.                                                              55
  (3) An employee’s monthly remuneration or wage is four and one-third times the
employee’s weekly remuneration or wage, respectively.
                                           18

   (4) If an employee’s remuneration or wage is calculated, either wholly or in part, on
a basis other than time or if an employee’s remuneration or wage fluctuates significantly
from period to period, any payment to that employee in terms of this Act must be
calculated by reference to the employee’s remuneration or wage during—
      (a) the preceding 13 weeks; or                                                      5
      (b) if the employee has been in employment for a shorter period, that period.
   (5) For the purposes of calculating an employee’s annual leave pay in terms of section
21, notice pay in terms of section 38 or severance pay in terms of section 41, an
employee’s remuneration—
      (a) includes the cash value of any payment in kind that forms part of the 10
            employee’s remuneration unless the employee receives that payment in kind;
            but
      (b) excludes—
             (i) gratuities;
            (ii) allowances paid to an employee for the purposes of enabling an 15
                 employee to work; and
           (iii) any discretionary payments not related to the employee’s hours of work
                 or work performance.

                                   CHAPTER FIVE

                              Termination of employment                                      20

Application of this Chapter

 36. This Chapter does not apply to an employee who works less than 24 hours in a
month for an employer.

Notice of termination of employment

   37. (1) Subject to section 38, a contract of employment terminable at the instance of     25
a party to the contract may be terminated only on notice of not less than—
      (a) one week, if the employee has been employed for four weeks or less;
      (b) two weeks, if the employee has been employed for more than four weeks but
            not more than one year;
      (c) four weeks, if the employee—                                                       30
             (i) has been employed for one year or more; or
           (ii) is a farm worker or domestic worker who has been employed for more
                  than four weeks.
   (2) A collective agreement may permit a notice period shorter than that required by
subsection (1).                                                                              35
   (3) No agreement may require or permit an employee to give a period of notice longer
than that required of the employer.
   (4) (a) Notice of termination of a contract of employment must be given in writing,
except when it is given by an illiterate employee.
   (b) If an employee who receives notice of termination is not able to understand it, the   40
notice must be explained orally by, or on behalf of, the employer to the employee in an
official language the employee reasonably understands.
   (5) Notice of termination of a contract of employment given by an employer must—
      (a) not be given during any period of leave to which the employee is entitled in
            terms of Chapter Three; and                                                      45
      (b) not run concurrently with any period of leave to which the employee is
            entitled in terms of Chapter Three, except sick leave.
   (6) Nothing in this section affects the right—
      (a) of a dismissed employee to dispute the lawfulness or fairness of the dismissal
            in terms of Chapter VIII of the Labour Relations Act, 1995, or any other law;    50
            and
      (b) of an employer or an employee to terminate a contract of employment without
            notice for any cause recognised by law.
                                         19

Payment instead of notice

  38. (1) Instead of giving an employee notice in terms of section 37, an employer may
pay the employee the remuneration the employee would have received, calculated in
accordance with section 35, if the employee had worked during the notice period.
  (2) If an employee gives notice of termination of employment, and the employer         5
waives any part of the notice, the employer must pay the remuneration referred to in
subsection (1), unless the employer and employee agree otherwise.

Employees in accommodation provided by employers

  39. (1) If the employer of an employee who resides in accommodation that is situated
on the premises of the employer or that is supplied by the employer terminates the 10
contract of employment of that employee—
     (a) before the date on which the employer was entitled to do so in terms of section
           37; or
     (b) in terms of section 38,
the employer is required to provide the employee with accommodation for a period of 15
one month, or if it is a longer period, until the contract of employment could lawfully
have been terminated.
  (2) If an employee elects to remain in accommodation in terms of subsection (1) after
the employer has terminated the employee’s contract of employment in terms of section
38, the remuneration that the employer is required to pay in terms of section 38 is 20
reduced by that portion of the remuneration that represents the agreed value of the
accommodation for the period that the employee remains in the accommodation.

Payments on termination

  40. On termination of employment, an employer must pay an employee—
    (a) for any paid time off that the employee is entitled to in terms of section 10(3) 25
         or 16(3) that the employee has not taken;
    (b) remuneration calculated in accordance with section 21(1) for any period of
         annual leave due in terms of section 20(2) that the employee has not taken;
         and
    (c) if the employee has been in employment longer than four months, in respect 30
         of the employee’s annual leave entitlement during an incomplete annual leave
         cycle as defined in section 20(1)—
          (i) one day’s remuneration in respect of every 17 days on which the
              employee worked or was entitled to be paid; or
         (ii) remuneration calculated on any basis that is at least as favourable to the 35
              employee as that calculated in terms of subparagraph (i).

Severance pay

   41. (1) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘operational requirements’’ means
requirements based on the economic, technological, structural or similar needs of an
employer.                                                                              40
   (2) An employer must pay an employee who is dismissed for reasons based on the
employer’s operational requirements severance pay equal to at least one week’s
remuneration for each completed year of continuous service with that employer,
calculated in accordance with section 35.
   (3) The Minister may vary the amount of severance pay in terms of subsection (2) by 45
notice in the Gazette. This variation may only be done after consulting NEDLAC and
the Public Service Co-ordinating Bargaining Council established under Schedule 1 of
the Labour Relations Act, 1995.
   (4) An employee who unreasonably refuses to accept the employer’s offer of
alternative employment with that employer or any other employer, is not entitled to 50
severance pay in terms of subsection (2).
   (5) The payment of severance pay in compliance with this section does not affect an
employee’s right to any other amount payable according to law.
                                                   20

  (6) If there is a dispute only about the entitlement to severance pay in terms of this
section, the employee may refer the dispute in writing to—
     (a) a council, if the parties to the dispute fall within the registered scope of that
           council; or
     (b) the CCMA, if no council has jurisdiction.                                          5
  (7) The employee who refers the dispute to the council or the CCMA must satisfy it
that a copy of the referral has been served on all the other parties to the dispute.
  (8) The council or the CCMA must attempt to resolve the dispute through
conciliation.
  (9) If the dispute remains unresolved, the employee may refer it to arbitration.         10
  (10) If the Labour Court is adjudicating a dispute about a dismissal based on the
employer’s operational requirements, the Court may inquire into and determine the
amount of any severance pay to which the dismissed employee may be entitled and the
Court may make an order directing the employer to pay that amount.

Certificate of service                                                                                         15

   42. On termination of employment an employee is entitled to a certificate of service
stating—
      (a) the employee’s full name;
      (b) the name and address of the employer;
      (c) a description of any council or sectoral employment standard by which the 20
          employer’s business is covered;
      (d) the date of commencement and date of termination of employment;
      (e) the title of the job or a brief description of the work for which the employee
          was employed at date of termination;
      (f) the remuneration at date of termination; and                                   25
      (g) if the employee so requests, the reason for termination of employment.

                                          CHAPTER SIX

                 Prohibition of employment of children and forced labour

Prohibition of employment of children

  43. (1) No person may employ a child—                                                    30
     (a) who is under 15 years of age; or
     (b) who is under the minimum school-leaving age in terms of any law, if this is 15
          or older.9
  (2) No person may employ a child in employment—
     (a) that is inappropriate for a person of that age;                                   35
     (b) that places at risk the child’s well-being, education, physical or mental health,
          or spiritual, moral or social development.
  (3) A person who employs a child in contravention of subsection (1) or (2) commits
an offence.

Employment of children of 15 years or older                                                                    40

   44. (1) Subject to section 43(2), the Minister may, on the advice of the Commission,
make regulations to prohibit or place conditions on the employment of children who are
at least 15 years of age and no longer subject to compulsory schooling in terms of any
law.
   (2) A person who employs a child in contravention of subsection (1) commits an 45
offence.




9. Section 31(1) of the South African Schools Act, 1996 (Act No. 84 of 1996), requires every parent to
   cause every learner for whom he or she is responsible to attend a school until the last school day of the
   year in which the learner reaches the age of 15 or the ninth grade, whichever is the first.
                                                  21

Medical examinations

  45. The Minister may, after consulting the Commission, make regulations relating to
the conduct of medical examinations of children in employment.10

Prohibitions

  46. It is an offence to—                                                                                  5
    (a) assist an employer to employ a child in contravention of this Act; or
    (b) discriminate against a person who refuses to permit a child to be employed in
           contravention of this Act.

Evidence of age

   47. In any proceedings in terms of this Act, if the age of an employee is a relevant 10
factor for which insufficient evidence is available, it is for the party who alleges that the
employment complied with the provisions of this Chapter to prove that it was reasonable
for that party to believe, after investigation, that the person was not below the permitted
age in terms of section 43 or 44.

Prohibition of forced labour                                                                                15

  48. (1) Subject to the Constitution, all forced labour is prohibited.
  (2) No person may for his or her own benefit or for the benefit of someone else, cause,
demand or impose forced labour in contravention of subsection (1).
  (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits an offence.

                                       CHAPTER SEVEN                                                        20

                        Variation of basic conditions of employment

Variation by agreement

   49. (1) A collective agreement concluded in a bargaining council may alter, replace or
exclude any basic condition of employment if the collective agreement is consistent
with the purpose of this Act and the collective agreement does not—                                         25
      (a) reduce the protection afforded to employees by sections 7, 9 and any
           regulation made in terms of section 13;
      (b) reduce the protection afforded to employees who perform night work in terms
           of section 17(3) and (4);
      (c) reduce an employee’s annual leave in terms of section 20 to less than two                         30
           weeks;
      (d) reduce an employee’s entitlement to maternity leave in terms of section 25;
      (e) reduce an employee’s entitlement to sick leave in terms of sections 22 to 24;
      (f) conflict with the provisions of Chapter Six.
   (2) A collective agreement, other than an agreement contemplated in subsection (1),                      35
may replace or exclude a basic condition of employment, to the extent permitted by this
Act or a sectoral determination.
   (3) An employer and an employee may agree to replace or exclude a basic condition
of employment to the extent permitted by this Act or a sectoral determination.
   (4) No provision in this Act or a sectoral determination may be interpreted as                           40
permitting—
      (a) a contract of employment or agreement between an employer and an
           employee contrary to the provisions of a collective agreement;
      (b) a collective agreement contrary to the provisions of a collective agreement
           concluded in a bargaining council.                                                               45




10. Section 90(3) protects the confidentiality of any medical examination conducted in terms of this Act.
                                            22

Variation by Minister

   50. (1) The Minister may, if it is consistent with the purpose of this Act, make a
determination to replace or exclude any basic condition of employment provided for in
this Act in respect of—
      (a) any category of employees or category of employers; or                              5
      (b) any employer or employee in respect of whom an application is made by—
             (i) the employer;
            (ii) the registered employers’ organisation;
           (iii) the employer and the registered employers’ organisation.
   (2) A determination in terms of subsection (1)—                                            10
      (a) may not be made in respect of sections 7, 9, 17(3) and (4), 43(2), 44 or 48 or
            a regulation made in terms of section 13; and
      (b) may only be made in respect of section 43(1) to allow the employment of
            children in the performance of advertising, sports, artistic or cultural
            activities.                                                                       15
   (3) A determination in terms of subsection 1(a) must—
      (a) be made on the advice of the Commission; and
      (b) be issued by a notice in the Gazette.
   (4) The Minister may request the Commission—
      (a) to advise on any application made in terms of subsection (1)(b);                    20
      (b) to prepare guidelines for the consideration of applications made in terms of
            subsection (1)(b).
   (5) A determination in terms of subsection (1) that applies to the public service must
be made by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister for the Public Service and
Administration.                                                                               25
   (6) If a determination in terms of subsection (1) concerns the employment of children,
the Minister must consult with the Minister for Welfare and Population Development
before making the determination.
   (7) (a) A determination in terms of subsection (1)(b) may be issued if the application
has the consent of every registered trade union that represents the employees in respect      30
of whom the determination is to apply.
   (b) If no consent contemplated in paragraph (a) is obtained, a determination in terms
of subsection (1)(b) may be issued if—
       (i) the employer or employers’ organisation has served a copy of the application,
            together with a notice stating that representations may be made to the            35
            Minister, on any registered trade union that represents employees affected by
            the application; and
     (ii) in the case where the majority of employees are not represented by a
            registered trade union, the employer or employer’s organisation has taken
            reasonable steps to bring the application and the fact that representations may   40
            be made to the Minister, to the attention of those employees.
   (8) A determination made in terms of subsection (1)(b)—
      (a) may be issued on any conditions and for a period determined by the Minister;
      (b) may take effect on a date earlier than the date on which the determination is
            given, but not earlier than the date on which application was made;               45
      (c) must be issued in a notice in the prescribed form if the determination is made
            in respect of an application made by an employer;
      (d) must be published in a notice in the Gazette if the determination is made in
            respect of an application made by an employers’ organisation.
   (9) (a) The Minister may on application by any affected party and after allowing other     50
affected parties a reasonable opportunity to make representations, amend or withdraw a
determination issued in terms of subsection (1).
   (b) For the purposes of paragraph (a), an affected party is—
       (i) an employer or employer’s organisation that is covered by the determination;
     (ii) a registered trade union representing employees covered by the determination,       55
            or an employee covered by the determination who is not a member of a
            registered trade union.
                                                23

  (10) An employer in respect of whom a determination has been made, or whose
employees are covered by a determination in terms of subsection (1), must—
    (a) display a copy of the notice conspicuously at the workplace where it can be
         read by the employees to whom the determination applies;
    (b) notify each employee in writing of the fact of the determination and of where 5
         a copy of the notice has been displayed; and
    (c) give a copy of the notice to every—
          (i) registered trade union representing those employees;
         (ii) trade union representative representing those employees; and
        (iii) employee who requests a copy.                                           10

                                     CHAPTER EIGHT

                                   Sectoral determinations

Sectoral determination

   51. (1) The Minister may make a sectoral determination establishing basic conditions
of employment for employees in a sector and area.                                       15
   (2) A sectoral determination must be made in accordance with this Chapter and by
notice in the Gazette.

Investigation

   52. (1) Before making a sectoral determination, the Minister must direct the
Director-General to investigate conditions of employment in the sector and area                         20
concerned.
   (2) The Minister must determine terms of reference for the investigation, which must
include—
      (a) the sector and area to be investigated;
      (b) the categories or classes of employees to be included in the investigation; and               25
      (c) the matters to be investigated, which may include any matter listed in section
            55(4).
   (3) The Minister must publish a notice in the Gazette setting out the terms of reference
of the investigation and inviting written representations by members of the public.
   (4) If an organisation representing employers or employees in a sector and area makes                30
a written request to the Minister to investigate conditions of employment in that sector
and area, the Minister must either—
      (a) direct the Director-General to conduct an investigation; or
      (b) request the Commission to advise the Minister on whether the requested
            investigation ought to be conducted.                                                        35

Conduct of investigation

  53. (1) For the purposes of conducting an investigation in terms of section 52(1), the
Director-General may—
     (a) question any person who may be able to provide information relevant to any
           investigation; or                                                                40
     (b) require, in writing, any employer or employee in a sector and area that is being
           investigated or any other person to furnish any information, book, document
           or object that is material to the investigation within a specified period, which
           must be reasonable.
  (2) A person may not refuse to answer any relevant question by the Director-General 45
that he or she is legally obliged to answer.11

Preparation of report

 54. (1) On completion of an investigation, and after considering any representations
made by members of the public, the Director-General must prepare a report.

11. An answer by a person to a question put to him or her by a person conducting an investigation may
    not be used in any criminal proceedings except proceedings in respect of a charge of perjury or
    making a false statement (s. 91).
                                          24

   (2) A copy of the report must be submitted to the Commission for its consideration.
   (3) When advising the Minister on the publication of a sectoral determination, the
Commission must consider in respect of the sector and area concerned—
      (a) the report prepared in terms of subsection (1);
      (b) the ability of employers to carry on their business successfully;                 5
      (c) the operation of small, medium or micro-enterprises, and new enterprises;
      (d) the cost of living;
      (e) the alleviation of poverty;
      (f) conditions of employment;
      (g) wage differentials and inequality;                                               10
      (h) the likely impact of any proposed condition of employment on current
           employment or the creation of employment;
      (i) the possible impact of any proposed conditions of employment on the health,
           safety or welfare of employees;
      (j) any other relevant information made available to the Commission.                 15
   (4) The Commission must prepare a report for the Minister containing recommenda-
tions on the matters which should be included in a sectoral determination for the relevant
sector and area.

Making of sectoral determination

   55. (1) After considering the report and recommendations of the Commission             20
contemplated in section 54(4), the Minister may make a sectoral determination for one
or more sector and area.
   (2) If the Minister does not accept a recommendation of the Commission made in
terms of section 54(4), the Minister must refer the matter to the Commission for its
reconsideration indicating the matters on which the Minister disagrees with the           25
Commission.
   (3) After considering the further report and recommendations of the Commission, the
Minister may make a sectoral determination.
   (4) A sectoral determination may in respect to the sector and area concerned—
      (a) set minimum terms and conditions of employment, including minimum rates         30
           of remuneration;
      (b) provide for the adjustment of minimum rates of remuneration;
      (c) regulate the manner, timing and other conditions of payment of remuneration;
      (d) prohibit or regulate payment of remuneration in kind;
      (e) require employers to keep employment records;                                   35
      (f) require employers to provide records to their employees;
      (g) prohibit or regulate task-based work, piecework, home work and contract
           work;
      (h) set minimum standards for housing and sanitation for employees who reside
           on their employers’ premises;                                                  40
      (i) regulate payment of travelling and other work-related allowances;
      (j) specify minimum conditions of employment for trainees;
      (k) specify minimum conditions of employment for persons other than employ-
           ees;
      (l) regulate training and education schemes;                                        45
      (m) regulate pension, provident, medical aid, sick pay, holiday and unemployment
           schemes or funds; and
      (n) regulate any other matter concerning remuneration or other terms or
           conditions of employment.
   (5) Any provisions of a sectoral determination may apply to all or some of the         50
employers and employees in the sector and area concerned.
   (6) A sectoral determination in terms of subsection (1)—
      (a) may not be made in respect of section 7, 43(2) or 44;
      (b) may only be made in respect of section 43(1) to allow the employment of
           children in the performance of advertising, sports, artistic or cultural       55
           activities;
      (c) may not reduce the protection afforded to employees by sections 9 and 17 (3)
           and (4) or a regulation made in terms of section 13.
   (7) The Minister may not publish a sectoral determination—
                                          25

     (a) covering employees and employers who are bound by a collective agreement
         concluded at a bargaining council;
     (b) regulating any matter in a sector and area in which a statutory council is
         established and in respect of which that statutory council has concluded a
         collective agreement;                                                             5
     (c) regulating any matter regulated by a sectoral determination for a sector and
         area which has been in effect for less than 12 months.

Period of operation of sectoral determination

   56. (1) The provisions of a sectoral determination remain binding until they are
amended or superseded by a new or amended sectoral determination, or they are 10
cancelled or suspended by the Minister.
   (2) If a collective agreement contemplated in section 55(6)(a) or (b) is concluded, the
provisions of a sectoral determination cease to be binding upon employers and
employees covered by the agreement.
   (3) The Minister may, by notice in the Gazette—                                         15
      (a) cancel or suspend any provision of a sectoral determination, either in the
            sector and area as a whole or in part of the sector or in a specific area; or
      (b) correct or clarify the meaning of any provision of a sectoral determination as
            previously published.
   (4) Before publishing a notice of cancellation or suspension in terms of subsection 20
(3)(a) the Minister must, by notice in the Gazette, announce the intention to do so, and
allow an opportunity for public comment.

Legal effect of sectoral determination

  57. If a matter regulated in this Act is also regulated in terms of a sectoral
determination, the provision in the sectoral determination prevails.             25

Employer to keep a copy of sectoral determination

  58. Unless a sectoral determination provides otherwise, every employer on whom the
sectoral determination is binding must—
     (a) keep a copy of that sectoral determination available in the workplace at all
          times;                                                                      30
     (b) make that copy available for inspection by an employee; and
     (c) give a copy of that sectoral determination—
           (i) to an employee who has paid the prescribed fee; and
          (ii) free of charge, on request, to an employee who is a trade union
               representative or a member of a workplace forum.                       35

                                  CHAPTER NINE

                        Employment Conditions Commission

Establishment and functions of Employment Conditions Commission

  59. (1) The Employment Conditions Commission is hereby established.
  (2) The functions of the Commission are to advise the Minister—                     40
     (a) on sectoral determinations in terms of Chapter Eight;
     (b) on any matter concerning basic conditions of employment;
     (c) on any matter arising out of the application of this Act;
     (d) on the effect of the policies of the government on employment;
     (e) on trends in collective bargaining and whether any of those trends undermine 45
          the purpose of this Act;
     (f) and the Minister for Welfare and Population Development, on any matter
          concerning the employment of children, including the review of section 43;
     (g) and the Minister for the Public Service and Administration, on any matter
          concerning basic conditions of employment in the public service.            50
                                           26

   (3) The Commission may draw up rules for the conduct of its meetings and public
hearings.
   (4) Subject to the laws governing the public service, the Minister must provide the
Commission with the staff that the Minister considers necessary for the performance of
its functions.                                                                          5
   (5) The Minister must direct the Director-General to undertake research that is
required to enable the Commission to perform its functions.
   (6) The expenses of the Commission are to be met by money appropriated by
Parliament for that purpose and which is subject to audit by the Auditor-General,
referred to in section 188 of the Constitution.                                        10

Composition of Commission

   60. (1) The Minister must, after consultation with NEDLAC, appoint as members of
the Commission three persons who are knowledgeable about the labour market and
conditions of employment, including the conditions of employment of vulnerable and
unorganised workers, and designate one of them as the chairperson.                          15
   (2) The Minister must, in addition, appoint two more members to the Commission—
      (a) one of whom must be nominated by the voting members of NEDLAC
           representing organised labour;
      (b) one of whom must be nominated by the voting members of NEDLAC
           representing organised business.                                                 20
   (3) The chairperson and members of the Commission—
      (a) must be citizens or permanent residents of the Republic;
      (b) must act impartially when performing any function of the Commission;
      (c) may not engage in any activity that may undermine the integrity of the
           Commission; and                                                                  25
      (d) must recuse themselves from advising the Minister on any matter in respect of
           which they have a direct financial interest or any other conflict of interest.
   (4) The Minister must determine—
      (a) the term of office of the chairperson and members of the Commission, which
           may not be more than three years;                                                30
      (b) with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, the remuneration and
           allowances to be paid to members of the Commission; and
      (c) any other conditions of appointment not provided for in this section.
   (5) The Minister must appoint a member to act as chairperson whenever—
      (a) the chairperson is absent from the Republic or from duty, or for any reason is    35
           temporarily unable to function as chairperson; or
      (b) the office of chairperson is vacant.
   (6) A person whose period of office as the chairperson or a member of the
Commission has expired is eligible for reappointment.
   (7) The chairperson or a member of the Commission may resign in writing.                 40
   (8) The Minister may remove the chairperson or a member of the Commission from
office for—
      (a) serious misconduct;
      (b) permanent incapacity; or
      (c) engaging in any activity that may undermine the integrity of the Commission.      45

Public hearings

   61. The Commission may hold public hearings at which it may permit members of the
public to make oral representations on any matter that the Commission is considering in
terms of section 59(2).

Report by Commission                                                                        50

  62. (1) The Commission’s advice to the Minister must be in the form of a written
report.
  (2) The Commission must, when performing any function in terms of section 59(2)(b)
                                             27

to (e), take into account the considerations set out in section 54(3) to the extent that they
are appropriate.
   (3) The members of the Commission must endeavour to prepare a unanimous report
to the Minister. If the members are not able to prepare a unanimous report, each member
is entitled to have his or her views reflected in the report.                                   5

                                    CHAPTER TEN

                    Monitoring, enforcement and legal proceedings

                                         PART A

                             Monitoring and enforcement

Appointment of labour inspectors                                                                10

   63. (1) The Minister may—
      (a) appoint any person in the public service as a labour inspector;
      (b) designate any person in the public service, or any person appointed as a
           designated agent of a bargaining council in terms of section 33 of the Labour
           Relations Act, 1995, to perform any of the functions of a labour inspector.   15
   (2) Any person appointed under subsection (1) must perform his or her functions in
terms of this Chapter, subject to the direction and control of the Minister.
   (3) The Minister must provide each labour inspector with a signed certificate in the
prescribed form stating—
      (a) that the person is a labour inspector;                                         20
      (b) which legislation that labour inspector may monitor and enforce; and
      (c) which of the functions of a labour inspector that person may perform.

Functions of labour inspectors

  64. (1) A labour inspector appointed under section 63(1) may promote, monitor and
enforce compliance with an employment law by—                                            25
     (a) advising employees and employers of their rights and obligations in terms of
          an employment law;
     (b) conducting inspections in terms of this Chapter;
     (c) investigating complaints made to a labour inspector;
     (d) endeavouring to secure compliance with an employment law by securing 30
          undertakings or issuing compliance orders; and
     (e) performing any other prescribed function.
  (2) A labour inspector may not perform any function in terms of this Act in respect of
an undertaking in respect of which the labour inspector has, or may reasonably be
perceived to have, any personal, financial or similar interest.                          35

Powers of entry

   65. (1) In order to monitor and enforce compliance with an employment law, a labour
inspector may, without warrant or notice, at any reasonable time, enter—
      (a) any workplace or any other place where an employer carries on business or
           keeps employment records, that is not a home;                                  40
      (b) any premises used for training in terms of the Manpower Training Act, 1981
           (Act No. 56 of 1981); or
      (c) any private employment office registered under section 15 of the Guidance
           and Placement Act, 1981 (Act No. 62 of 1981).
   (2) A labour inspector may enter a home or any place other than a place referred to in 45
subsection (1) only—
      (a) with the consent of the owner or occupier; or
      (b) if authorised to do so in writing in terms of subsection (3).
   (3) The Labour Court may issue an authorisation contemplated in subsection (2) only
on written application by a labour inspector who states under oath or affirmation the 50
                                                  28

reasons for the need to enter a place in order to monitor or enforce compliance with any
employment law.
   (4) If it is practical to do so, the employer and a trade union representative must be
notified that the labour inspector is present at a workplace and of the reason for the
inspection.                                                                                                 5

Powers to question and inspect

   66. (1) In order to monitor or enforce compliance with an employment law, a labour
inspector may—
     (a) require a person to disclose information, either orally or in writing, and either
           alone or in the presence of witnesses, on any matter to which an employment                      10
           law relates, and require that the disclosure be made under oath or affirmation;
     (b) inspect, and question a person about, any record or document to which an
           employment law relates;
     (c) copy any record or document referred to in paragraph (b), or remove these to
           make copies or extracts;                                                                         15
     (d) require a person to produce or deliver to a place specified by the labour
           inspector any record or document referred to in paragraph (b) for inspection;
      (e) inspect, question a person about, and if necessary remove, any article,
           substance or machinery present at a place referred to in section 65;
      (f) inspect or question a person about any work performed; and                                        20
      (g) perform any other prescribed function necessary for monitoring or enforcing
           compliance with an employment law.
   (2) A labour inspector may be accompanied by an interpreter and any other person
reasonably required to assist in conducting the inspection.
   (3) A labour inspector must—                                                                             25
      (a) produce on request the certificate referred to in section 63(3);
      (b) provide a receipt for any record, document, article, substance or machinery
           removed in terms of subsection (1)(c) or (e); and
      (c) return anything removed within a reasonable period of time.
   (4) The powers provided for in this Part are in addition to any power of a labour                        30
inspector in terms of any other employment law.

Co-operation with labour inspectors

   67. (1) Any person who is questioned by a labour inspector in terms of section 66 must
answer all relevant questions lawfully put to that person truthfully and to the best of his
or her ability.12                                                                           35
   (2) Every employer and each employee must provide any facility and assistance at a
workplace that is reasonably required by a labour inspector to perform the labour
inspector’s functions effectively.

Securing an undertaking

  68. (1) A labour inspector who has reasonable grounds to believe that an employer has 40
not complied with any provision of this Act must endeavour to secure a written
undertaking by the employer to comply with the provision.
  (2) In endeavouring to secure the undertaking, the labour inspector—
     (a) may seek to obtain agreement between the employer and employee as to any
          amount owed to the employee in terms of this Act;                             45
     (b) may arrange for payment to an employee of any amount paid as a result of an
          undertaking;
     (c) may, at the written request of an employee, receive payment on behalf of the
          employee; and
     (d) must provide a receipt for any payment received in terms of paragraph (c). 50




12. An answer by a person to a question of a labour inspector may not be used in any criminal
    proceedings except proceedings in respect of a charge of perjury or making a false statement (s. 91).
                                           29

Compliance order

   69. (1) A labour inspector who has reasonable grounds to believe that an employer has
not complied with a provision of this Act may issue a compliance order.
   (2) A compliance order must set out—
      (a) the name of the employer, and the location of every workplace, to which it 5
           applies;
      (b) any provision of this Act that the employer has not complied with, and details
           of the conduct constituting non-compliance;
      (c) any amount that the employer is required to pay to an employee;
      (d) any written undertaking by the employer in terms of section 68(1) and any 10
           failure by the employer to comply with a written undertaking;
      (e) any steps that the employer is required to take including, if necessary, the
           cessation of the contravention in question and the period within which those
           steps must be taken; and
      (f) the maximum fine that may be imposed upon the employer in accordance with 15
           Schedule Two for a failure to comply with a provision of this Act.
   (3) A labour inspector must deliver a copy of the compliance order to the employer
named in it, and to each employee affected by it or, if this is impractical, a representative
of the employees.
   (4) The employer must display a copy of the compliance order prominently at a place 20
accessible to the affected employees at each workplace named in it.
   (5) An employer must comply with the compliance order within the time period stated
in the order unless the employer objects in terms of section 71.

Limitations

  70. A labour inspector may not issue a compliance order in respect of any amount 25
payable to an employee as a result of a failure to comply with a provision of this Act if—
    (a) the employee is covered by a collective agreement that provides for resolution
          by arbitration of disputes concerning amounts owing in terms of this Act;
    (b) the employee is employed in a category of employees mentioned in section
          6(1)(a) or in respect of which a notice has been issued in terms of section 6(3); 30
    (c) any proceedings have been instituted for the recovery of that amount or, if
          proceedings have been instituted, those proceedings have been withdrawn; or
    (d) that amount has been payable for longer than 12 months.

Objections to compliance order

   71. (1) An employer may object to a compliance order by making representations in       35
writing to the Director-General within 21 days of receipt of that order.
   (2) If the employer shows good cause at any time, the Director-General may permit
the employer to object after the period of 21 days has expired.
   (3) After considering any representations by the employer and any other relevant
information, the Director-General—                                                         40
      (a) may confirm, modify or cancel an order or any part of an order; and
      (b) must specify the period within which the employer must comply with any part
            of an order that is confirmed or modified.
   (4) The information that the Director-General must consider includes—
      (a) any evidence concerning the employer’s compliance record;                        45
      (b) the likelihood that the employer was aware of the relevant provisions; and
      (c) the steps taken by the employer to ensure compliance with the relevant
            provision.
   (5) The Director-General must serve a copy of the order made in terms of subsection
(3) on the employer and on each employee affected by it or, if this is impractical, on a   50
representative of the employees.
                                           30

  (6) If the Director-General confirms or modifies the order or any part of the order, the
employer must comply with that order within the time period specified in that order.

Appeals from order of Director-General

  72. (1) An employer may appeal to the Labour Court against an order of the
Director-General within 21 days of receipt of that order.                                    5
  (2) The order is suspended pending the final determination of the appeal by the
Labour Court or any appeal from the Labour Court.
  (3) If the employer shows good cause at any time, the Labour Court may permit the
employer to appeal after the period of 21 days has expired.

Order may be made order of Labour Court                                                      10

   73. (1) The Director-General may apply to the Labour Court for a compliance order
to be made an order of the Labour Court in terms of section 158(1)(c) of the Labour
Relations Act, 1995, if the employer has not complied with the order and has not lodged
an objection against the order in terms of section 71(1).
   (2) The Director-General may apply to the Labour Court for an order of the 15
Director-General in terms of section 71(3) to be made an order of the Labour Court in
terms of section 158(1)(c) of the Labour Relations Act, 1995, if the employer has not
complied with the order and has not appealed against the order in terms of section 72(1).
   (3) For the purposes of section 158(1)(c) of the Labour Relations Act, 1995, a
compliance order or an order in terms of section 71(3) is deemed to be an arbitration 20
award.

                                        PART B

                                  Legal proceedings

Consolidation of proceedings

   74. (1) A dispute concerning a contravention of this Act may be instituted jointly with 25
proceedings instituted by an employee under Part C of this Chapter.
   (2) If an employee institutes proceedings for unfair dismissal, the Labour Court or the
arbitrator hearing the matter may also determine any claim for an amount that is owing
to that employee in terms of this Act if—
      (a) the claim is referred in compliance with section 191 of the Labour Relations 30
            Act, 1995;
      (b) the amount has not been owing to the employee for longer than one year; and
      (c) no compliance order has been made and no other legal proceedings have been
            instituted to recover the amount.
   (3) A dispute concerning any amount that is owing to an employee as a result of a 35
contravention of this Act may be initiated jointly with a dispute instituted by that
employee over the entitlement to severance pay in terms of section 41(6).

Payment of interest

  75. An employer must pay interest on any amount due and payable in terms of the
Prescribed Rate of Interest Act, 1975 (Act No. 55 of 1975), to any person to whom a 40
payment should have been made.

Proof of compliance

  76. (1) In any proceedings concerning a contravention of this Act or any sectoral
determination it is for an employer—
     (a) to prove that a record maintained by or for that employer is valid and accurate; 45
                                            31

     (b) who has failed to keep any record required by this Act that is relevant to those
         proceedings, to prove compliance with any provision of this Act.

Jurisdiction of Labour Court

   77. (1) Subject to the Constitution and the jurisdiction of the Labour Appeal Court,
and except where this Act provides otherwise, the Labour Court has exclusive 5
jurisdiction in respect of all matters in terms of this Act, except in respect of an offence
specified in sections 43, 44, 46, 48, 90 and 92.
   (2) The Labour Court may review the performance or purported performance of any
function provided for in this Act or any act or omission of any person in terms of this Act
on any grounds that are permissible in law.                                                  10
   (3) The Labour Court has concurrent jurisdiction with the civil courts to hear and
determine any matter concerning a contract of employment, irrespective of whether any
basic condition of employment constitutes a term of that contract.
   (4) Subsection (1) does not prevent any person relying upon a provision of this Act to
establish that a basic condition of employment constitutes a term of a contract of 15
employment in any proceedings in a civil court or an arbitration held in terms of an
agreement.
   (5) If proceedings concerning any matter contemplated in terms of subsection (1) are
instituted in a court that does not have jurisdiction in respect of that matter, that court
may at any stage during proceedings refer that matter to the Labour Court.                   20

                                        PART C

                   Protection of employees against discrimination

Rights of employees

   78. (1) Every employee has the right to—
      (a) make a complaint to a trade union representative, a trade union official or a       25
           labour inspector concerning any alleged failure or refusal by an employer to
           comply with this Act;
      (b) discuss his or her conditions of employment with his or her fellow employees,
           his or her employer or any other person;
      (c) refuse to comply with an instruction that is contrary to this Act or any sectoral   30
           determination;
      (d) refuse to agree to any term or condition of employment that is contrary to this
           Act or any sectoral determination;
      (e) inspect any record kept in terms of this Act that relates to the employment of
           that employee;                                                                     35
      (f) participate in proceedings in terms of this Act;
      (g) request a trade union representative or a labour inspector to inspect any record
           kept in terms of this Act and that relates to the employment of that employee.
   (2) Every trade union representative has the right, at the request of an employee, to
inspect any record kept in terms of this Act that relates to the employment of that           40
employee.

Protection of rights

  79. (1) In this section, ‘‘employee’’ includes a former employee or an applicant for
employment.
  (2) No person may discriminate against an employee for exercising a right conferred 45
by this Part and no person may do, or threaten to do, any of the following:
     (a) Require an employee not to exercise a right conferred by this Part;
     (b) prevent an employee from exercising a right conferred by this Part; or
     (c) prejudice an employee because of a past, present or anticipated—
                                          32

           (i) failure or refusal to do anything that an employer may not lawfully
               permit or require an employee to do;
          (ii) disclosure of information that the employee is lawfully entitled or
               required to give to another person; or
         (iii) exercise of a right conferred by this Part.                                 5
  (3) No person may favour, or promise to favour, an employee in exchange for the
employee not exercising a right conferred by this Part. However, nothing in this section
precludes the parties to a dispute from concluding an agreement to settle the dispute.

Procedure for disputes

   80. (1) If there is a dispute about the interpretation or application of this Part, any 10
party to the dispute may refer the dispute in writing to—
      (a) a council, if the parties to the dispute fall within the registered scope of that
            council; or
      (b) the CCMA, if no council has jurisdiction.
   (2) The party who refers a dispute must satisfy the council or the CCMA that a copy 15
of the referral has been served on all the other parties to the dispute.
   (3) The council or the CCMA must attempt to resolve a dispute through conciliation.
   (4) If a dispute remains unresolved, any party to the dispute may refer it to the Labour
Court for adjudication.
   (5) In respect of a dispute in terms of this Part, the relevant provisions of Part C of 20
Chapter VII of the Labour Relations Act, 1995, apply with the changes required by the
context.

Burden of proof

  81. In any proceeding in terms of this Part—
    (a) an employee who alleges that a right or protection conferred by this Part has 25
          been infringed, must prove the facts of the conduct said to constitute such
          infringement; and
    (b) the party who allegedly engaged in the conduct in question must then prove
          that the conduct did not infringe any provision of this Part.

                                CHAPTER ELEVEN                                             30

                                       General

Temporary employment services

    82. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a person whose services have been procured for,
or provided to, a client by a temporary employment service is the employee of that
temporary employment service, and the temporary employment service is that person’s 35
employer.
    (2) Despite subsection (1), a person who is an independent contractor is not an
employee of a temporary employment service, nor is the temporary employment service
the employer of that person.
    (3) The temporary employment service and the client are jointly and severally liable 40
if the temporary employment service, in respect of any employee who provides services
to that client, does not comply with this Act or a sectoral determination.

Deeming of persons as employees

  83. (1) The Minister may, on the advice of the Commission and by notice in the
Gazette, deem any category of persons specified in the notice to be employees for 45
purposes of this Act or any sectoral determination.
  (2) Before the Minister issues a notice under subsection (1), the Minister must—
     (a) publish a draft of the proposed notice in the Gazette; and
     (b) invite interested persons to submit written representations on the proposed
          notice within a reasonable period.                                         50
                                           33

Duration of employment

   84. (1) For the purposes of determining the length of an employee’s employment with
an employer for any provision of this Act, previous employment with the same employer
must be taken into account if the break between the periods of employment is less than
one year.                                                                                   5
   (2) Any payment made or any leave granted in terms of this Act to an employee
contemplated in subsection (1) during a previous period of employment must be taken
into account in determining the employee’s entitlement to leave or to a payment in terms
of this Act.

Delegation                                                                                  10

  85. (1) The Minister may in writing delegate or assign to the Director-General or any
employee in the public service of the rank of assistant director or of a higher rank, any
power or duty conferred or imposed upon the Minister in terms of this Act, except the
Minister’s powers in terms of sections 6(3), 55(1), 60, 83, 87 and 95(2) and the
Minister’s power to make regulations.                                                      15
  (2) A delegation or assignment in terms of subsection (1) does not limit or restrict the
Minister’s authority to exercise or perform the delegated or assigned power or duty.
  (3) Any person to whom a power or duty is delegated or assigned in terms of
subsection (1) must exercise or perform that power or duty subject to the direction of the
Minister.                                                                                  20
  (4) The Minister may at any time—
     (a) withdraw a delegation or assignment made in terms of subsection (1); and
     (b) withdraw or amend any decision made by a person exercising or performing
          a power or duty delegated or assigned in terms of subsection (1).
  (5) The Director-General may in writing delegate or assign any power or duty 25
conferred or imposed upon the Director-General by Chapter Ten of this Act to any
employee in the Department of the rank of assistant director or of a higher rank.
  (6) Subsections (2), (3) and (4) apply with changes required by the context to any
delegations or assignments by the Director-General under subsection (5).

Regulations                                                                                 30

   86. (1) The Minister may by notice in the Gazette, after consulting the Commission,
make regulations regarding any matter that may be necessary or expedient to prescribe
in order to achieve the objects of this Act.
   (2) A regulation regarding state revenue or expenditure may be made only with the
concurrence of the Minister of Finance.                                                35

Codes of Good Practice

   87. (1) The Minister, after consulting NEDLAC—
      (a) must issue a Code of Good Practice on the Arrangement of Working Time;
      (b) must issue a Code of Good Practice on the Protection of Employees during
           Pregnancy and after the Birth of a Child;                                      40
      (c) may issue other codes of good practice; and
      (d) may change or replace any code of good practice.
   (2) Any code of good practice or any change to or replacement of a code of good
practice must be published in the Gazette.
   (3) Any person interpreting or applying this Act must take into account relevant codes 45
of good practice.

Minister’s power to add and change footnotes

   88. The Minister may, by notice in the Gazette, add to, change or replace any footnote
in this Act.
                                          34

Representation of employees or employers

  89. (1) A registered trade union or registered employers’ organisation may act in any
one or more of the following capacities in any dispute to which any of its members is a
party:
     (a) In its own interest;                                                               5
     (b) on behalf of any of its members;
     (c) in the interest of any of its members.
  (2) A registered trade union or a registered employers’ organisation is entitled to be a
party to any proceedings in terms of this Act if one or more of its members is a party to
these proceedings.                                                                         10

Confidentiality

   90. (1) It is an offence for any person to disclose information which that person
acquired while exercising or performing any power or duty in terms of this Act and
which relates to the financial or business affairs of any other person, except if the
information is disclosed in compliance with the provisions of any law—                 15
      (a) to enable a person to perform a function or exercise a power in terms of an
          employment law;
      (b) for the purposes of the proper administration of this Act;
      (c) for the purposes of the administration of justice.
   (2) Subsection (1) does not prevent the disclosure of any information concerning an 20
employer’s compliance or non-compliance with the provisions of any employment law.
   (3) The record of any medical examination performed in terms of this Act must be
kept confidential and may be made available only—
      (a) in accordance with the ethics of medical practice;
      (b) if required by law or court order; or                                        25
      (c) if the employee has in writing consented to the release of that information.

Answers not to be used in criminal prosecutions

   91. No answer by any person to a question by a person conducting an investigation in
terms of section 53 or by a labour inspector in terms of section 66 may be used against
that person in any criminal proceedings except proceedings in respect of a charge of 30
perjury or making a false statement.

Obstruction, undue influence and fraud

  92. It is an offence to—
    (a) obstruct or attempt to influence improperly a person who is performing a
           function in terms of this Act;                                                 35
    (b) obtain or attempt to obtain any prescribed document by means of fraud, false
           pretences, or by presenting or submitting a false or forged document;
    (c) pretend to be a labour inspector or any other person performing a function in
           terms of this Act;
    (d) refuse or fail to answer fully any lawful question put by a labour inspector or 40
           any other person performing a function in terms of this Act;
    (e) refuse or fail to comply with any lawful request of, or lawful order by, a labour
           inspector or any other person performing a function in terms of this Act;
    (f) hinder or obstruct a labour inspector or any other person performing a
           function in terms of this Act.                                                 45

Penalties

  93. (1) Any magistrates’ court has jurisdiction to impose a penalty for an offence
provided for in this Act.
  (2) Any person convicted of an offence in terms of any section mentioned in the first
                                          35

column of the table below may be sentenced to a fine or imprisonment for a period not
longer than the period mentioned in the second column of that table opposite the number
of that section.

                            OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

                                                                                           5
 Section under which convicted               Maximum term of imprisonment
 Section 43                                  3 years
 Section 44                                  3 years
 Section 46                                  3 years
 Section 48                                  3 years                                      10
 Section 90(1) and (3)                       1 year
 Section 92                                  1 year


This Act binds the State

  94. This Act binds the State except in so far as criminal liability is concerned.

Transitional arrangements and amendment and repeal of laws                                15

   95. (1) The provisions of Schedule Three apply to the transition from other laws to
this Act.
   (2) The Minister may for the purposes of regulating the transition from any law to this
Act add to or change Schedule Three.
   (3) Any addition or change to Schedule Three must be tabled in the National 20
Assembly and takes effect—
      (a) if the National Assembly does not pass a resolution that the addition or change
           is not binding within 14 days of the date of the tabling; and
      (b) on publication in the Gazette.
   (4) Section 186 of the Labour Relations Act, 1995, is hereby amended by the deletion 25
of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (c).
   (5) The laws mentioned in the first two columns of Schedule Four are hereby repealed
to the extent indicated opposite that law in the third column of that Schedule.
   (6) The repeal of any law by subsection (5) does not affect any transitional
arrangement provided for in Schedule Three.                                                30

Short title and commencement

   96. This is the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1997, and comes into effect on
a date to be fixed by the President by proclamation in the Gazette.
                                          36

                                 SCHEDULE ONE

       PROCEDURES FOR PROGRESSIVE REDUCTION OF MAXIMUM
                        WORKING HOURS

Goal

  1. This Schedule records the procedures to be adopted to reduce the working hours of
employees to the goal of a 40 hour working week and an eight hour working day—
     (a) through collective bargaining and the publication of sectoral determinations;
     (b) having due regard to the impact of a reduction of working hours on existing
          employment and opportunities for employment creation, economic efficiency
          and the health, safety and welfare of employees.

Collective bargaining

  2. When during negotiations on terms and conditions of employment, a party to the
negotiations introduces the reduction of maximum working hours as a subject for
negotiation, the parties must negotiate on that issue.

Role of Employment Conditions Commission

  3. The Commission may investigate the possibility of reducing working hours in a
particular sector and area and make recommendations to the Minister thereon.

Investigation by Department of Labour

   4. (1) The Department of Labour must, after consultation with the Commission,
conduct an investigation as to how the reduction of weekly working hours to a level of
40 hours per week may be achieved.
   (2) The investigation must be completed and the report submitted to the Minister not
later than 18 months after the Act has come into operation.

Reports

  5. (1) The Department of Labour must, after consultation with the Commission—
     (a) monitor and review progress made in reducing working hours;
     (b) prepare and publish a report for the Minister on the progress made in the
          reduction of working hours.
  (2) The Department must publish reports every two years.
  (3) The reports must be tabled at Nedlac and in Parliament by the Minister.
  (4) The Minister may prescribe the returns to be submitted by employers, trade unions
and councils on any matter concerning this Schedule.

                                 SCHEDULE TWO

MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE FINES THAT MAY BE IMPOSED FOR FAILURE
                TO COMPLY WITH THIS ACT

  1. This Schedule sets out the maximum fine that may be imposed in terms of Chapter
Ten for a failure to comply with a provision of this Act.
  2. The maximum fine that may be imposed—
     (a) for a failure to comply with a provision of this Act not involving a failure to
          pay an amount due to an employee in terms of any basic condition of
          employment, is the fine determined in terms of Table One or Table Two;
     (b) involving a failure to pay an amount due to an employee, is the greater of the
          amount determined in terms of Table One or Table Two.
                                                      37

   TABLE ONE: MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE FINE NOT INVOLVING AN
                     UNDERPAYMENT

 No previous failure to comply                          R100 per employee in respect of whom the failure
                                                        to comply occurs
 A previous failure to comply in respect of the same R200 per employee in respect of whom the failure
 provision                                           to comply occurs
 A previous failure to comply within the previous       R300 per employee in respect of whom the failure
 12 months or two previous failures to comply in        to comply occurs
 respect of the same provision within three years
 Three previous failures to comply in respect of the    R400 per employee in respect of whom the failure
 same provision within three years                      to comply occurs
 Four previous failures to comply in respect of the     R500 per employee in respect of whom the failure
 same provision within three years                      to comply occurs


       TABLE TWO: MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE FINE INVOLVING AN
                       UNDERPAYMENT

 No previous failure to comply                          25% of the amount due, including any interest
                                                        owing on the amount at the date of the order
 A previous failure to comply in respect of the same 50% of the amount due, including any interest
 provision within three years                        owing on the amount at the date of the order
 A previous failure to comply in respect of the same 75% of the amount due, including any interest
 provision within a year, or two previous failures to   owing on the amount at the date of the order
 comply in respect of the same provision within
 three years
 Three previous failures to comply in respect of the    100% of the amount due, including any interest
 same provision within three years                      owing on the amount at the date of the order
 Four or more previous failures to comply in re-        200% of the amount due, including any interest
 spect of the same provision within three years         owing on the amount at the date of the order


                                       SCHEDULE THREE

                               TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Definitions

  1. For the purposes of this Schedule—
     ‘‘Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1983’’ means the Basic Conditions of
     Employment Act, 1983 (Act No. 3 of 1983);
     ‘‘domestic worker’’ means an employee defined as a ‘‘domestic servant’’ in section
     1(1) of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1983;
     ‘‘farm worker’’ means an employee who is employed mainly in or in connection
     with farming activities, and includes an employee who wholly or mainly performs
     domestic work in home premises on a farm;
     ‘‘mineworker’’ means an employee employed at a mine whose hours of work are
     prescribed in terms of any regulation that is in force in terms of item 4 of Schedule
     4 to the Mine Health and Safety Act, 1996 (Act No. 29 of 1996);
     ‘‘security guard’’ means an employee defined as a ‘‘guard’’ or a ‘‘security guard’’ in
     terms of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1983;
     ‘‘Wage Act, 1957’’ means the Wage Act, 1957 (Act No. 5 of 1957);
     ‘‘wage determination’’ means a wage determination made in terms of section 14 of
     the Wage Act, 1957.
                                           38

Application to public service

  2. This Act, except section 41, does not apply to the public service for 18 months after
the commencement of this Act, unless a bargaining council concludes a collective
agreement that a provision of this Act will apply from an earlier date.

Application to farm workers

  3. (1) Sections 6A, 10(2A) and 14(4A) of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act,
1983, continue to apply to the employment of a farm worker until such time as the
matters regulated by those provisions are regulated by a sectoral determination
applicable to the farm worker.
  (2) Until regulated by a sectoral determination, section 17(3) applies to farm workers
who work after 20:00 and before 04:00 at least five times per month or 50 times per year.

Payment in kind of domestic workers and farm workers

   4. (1) The definition of ‘‘wage’’ in section 1(1) of the Basic Conditions of
Employment Act, 1983, and the definition of ‘‘payment in kind’’ in the regulations
published under that Act continue to apply to the employment of domestic workers and
farm workers, until regulated by a sectoral determination.
   (2) The Minister may, by notice in the Gazette, amend any cash amount prescribed in
the definition of ‘‘payment in kind’’ in accordance with section 37 of the Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, 1983, as if that section had not been repealed.

Ordinary hours of work

  5. An employer may require or permit an employee who is employed as a farm
worker, mineworker or security guard to work ordinary hours of work in excess of those
prescribed by section 9(1) and (2) for the period specified in column two of Table One:
Provided that—
     (a) any condition in column two of Table One is complied with;
     (b) the employee’s hours of work do not exceed any limit on hours of work in any
          law or any wage-regulating measure applicable to that category of employee
          immediately before this Act came into effect;
     (c) the employee and his or her employer do not conclude an agreement in terms
          of sections 11 and 12.

                                     TABLE ONE

 Farm workers                                 For a period of 12 months after the commencement
                                              date of this Act, provided that the employee’s
                                              ordinary hours of work do not exceed 48 hours per
                                              week.
 Mineworkers                                  For a period of 12 months after the commencement
                                              date of this Act, provided that the employee’s total
                                              hours of work do not exceed any limit on hours or
                                              work prescribed in any applicable regulation that is
                                              in force in terms of item 4 of Schedule 4 to the
                                              Mine Health and Safety Act, 1996 (Act No. 29 of
                                              1996).
 Security guards                              For a period of 12 months after the commencement
                                              date of this Act, provided that the employee’s ordi-
                                              nary hours of work do not exceed 55 hours per
                                              week; and thereafter for a further period of 12
                                              months, provided that the employee’s ordinary
                                              hours of work do not exceed 50 hours per week.
                                                  39

Leave pay

   6. (1) The entitlement in terms of section 20(2) of an employee employed
continuously before and after the commencement of this Act takes effect on the date on
which, but for the enactment of this Act, the employee would next have commenced a
leave cycle in terms of section 12 of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1983, or
any wage determination.
   (2) Any accrued leave to which an employee was entitled in terms of section 12 of the
Basic Conditions of Employment Act, 1983, or a wage determination, but which has not
been granted by the date on which section 20(2) takes effect with respect to that
employee, must be added to the paid leave earned by that employee in terms of this Act.
   (3) Section 22(3) does not apply to any leave earned by the employee in respect of any
period prior to the date on which this Act takes effect.

Pay for sick leave

   7. (1) Table Two applies in respect of any employee, as defined in the Basic
Conditions of Employment Act, 1983, in employment at the commencement of this Act.
   (2) An employee listed in column one who was in continuous employment before the
commencement of this Act for the period set out in column two becomes entitled to the
rights under section 22(2) on the date listed in column three and section 22(3) on the date
listed in column four.

                                          TABLE TWO

    TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS IN RELATION TO SICK LEAVE

 Employees as defined      Period of continuous    Date of entitlement to      Date of entitlement to
 in the Basic Conditions   employment before       six weeks’ paid sick        one day’s paid sick
 of Employment Act,        commencement date of leave over 36-months           leave every 26 days
 1983                      this Act             sick leave cycle in            worked during the first
                                                terms of section 22(2)         six consecutive months
                                                                               of employment in
                                                                               terms of section 22(3)
 Employees and regular     Less than six months    Six months after com-       Date on which em-
 day workers                                       mencement date of em-       ployee began employ-
                                                   ployment                    ment
 Casual employees          Less than six months    Six months after com-       Commencement date of
                                                   mencement date of em-       this Act
                                                   ployment
 Regular day workers       More than six months    Commencement date of        Not applicable
 and casual employees                              this Act
 Employees (other than     Between six and 12      Commencement date of        Not applicable
 casual workers and        months                  this Act
 regular day workers)
 Employees                 More than 12 months     At conclusion of current Not applicable
                                                   sick leave cycle in terms
                                                   of section 13(1) of the
                                                   Basic Conditions of Em-
                                                   ployment Act, 1983


   (3) Any period of paid sick leave granted to an employee in accordance with Table
Two, may be deducted from the employee’s entitlement in terms of either section 22(2)
or section 22(3), if—
      (a) it was taken before the commencement of this Act; or
      (b) it was taken during the period that the relevant section was in effect with
          respect to that employee.
                                             40

Exemptions

   8. Any exemption granted under section 34 of the Basic Conditions of Employment
Act, 1983, in force immediately before the commencement of this Act remains in force
for the period for which the exemption was granted, or if the exemption was granted for
an indefinite period, for a period of six months after the commencement of this Act as if
that Act had not been repealed, unless it is withdrawn by the Minister, before the end of
such period.

Wage determinations

   9. Any wage determination and any amendment to a wage determination made in
terms of section 15 of the Wage Act, 1957, in force immediately before the
commencement of this Act remains in force for the period of its operation in terms of
section 18 of that Act, and may be extended or amended as if that Act had not been
repealed.

Exemptions to wage determination

   10. Any licence of exemption granted to a wage determination in terms of section 19
of the Wage Act, 1957, in force immediately before the commencement of this Act
remains in force for the period of operation of the determination, or until withdrawn in
terms of section 19(5) of that Act, as if that Act had not been repealed.

Agreements

  11. (1) Any agreement entered into before the commencement of this Act which is
permitted by this Act remains valid and binding.
  (2) Any provision in a collective agreement concluded in a bargaining council that
was in force immediately before this Act came into effect remains in effect for—
     (a) six months after the commencement date of this Act in the case of a provision
          contemplated by section 49(1)(a) to (d); and
     (b) 18 months after the commencement date of this Act in the case of a provision
          contemplated by section 49(1)(e).

                                 SCHEDULE FOUR

                       LAWS REPEALED BY SECTION 95(5)

 Number and year of law        Short title                     Extent of repeal
 Act No. 5 of 1957             Wage Act, 1957                  The whole
 Act No. 48 of 1981            Wage Amendment Act, 1981        The whole
 Act No. 3 of 1983             Basic Conditions of Employment The whole
                               Act, 1983
 Act No. 26 of 1984            Wage Amendment Act, 1984        The whole
 Act No. 27 of 1984            Basic Conditions of Employment The whole
                               Amendment Act, 1984
 Act No. 104 of 1992           Basic Conditions of Employment The whole
                               Amendment Act, 1992
 Act No. 137 of 1993           Basic Conditions of Employment The whole
                               Amendment Act, 1993
 Act No. 147 of 1993           Agricultural Labour Act, 1993   Chapter 2
 Act No. 50 of 1994            Agricultural Labour Amendment   Section 2
                               Act, 1994
 Act No. 66 of 1995            Labour Relations Act, 1995      Section 196
