LABOUR ACT
[AS AMENDED]

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

Section
1. General application.
2. Protection of wages.
3. Contracts of employment.
4. Working hours and leave.
5. Maternity protection.
6. Termination of employment.
7. Severance and redundancy.
8. Inspection and enforcement.
9. Offences.
10. Regulations.

GENERAL APPLICATION

1. This Act applies to all employers and workers in Nigeria except those employed in the naval, military or air forces of the Federation.

PROTECTION OF WAGES

2. (1) Wages shall be paid in legal tender.
   (2) Wages shall be paid not later than the agreed period.
   (3) Deductions from wages shall be made only as permitted by this Act or any other enactment.

CONTRACTS OF EMPLOYMENT

3. (1) A contract of employment may be expressed or implied.
   (2) Where a contract is expressed, it shall be in writing.
   (3) The contract shall specify the terms and conditions of employment.

WORKING HOURS AND LEAVE

4. (1) The normal working hours shall be eight hours per day or forty hours per week.
   (2) A worker shall be entitled to not less than six days' holiday with pay after twelve months of continuous service.
   (3) Female workers shall be entitled to maternity leave with pay for twelve weeks.

MATERNITY PROTECTION

5. (1) A pregnant worker shall be entitled to maternity leave with pay for twelve weeks.
   (2) Nursing breaks shall be allowed for nursing mothers.
   (3) Employers shall provide a safe working environment for pregnant workers.

TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

6. (1) Notice of termination shall be given in accordance with the contract or as prescribed by this Act.
   (2) Severance pay shall be paid to workers whose employment is terminated due to redundancy.
   (3) Notice period shall be at least one week for every year of service, up to a maximum of twelve weeks.

SEVERANCE AND REDUNDANCY

7. (1) Severance pay shall be calculated based on the worker's length of service and wages.
   (2) Redundancy procedures shall follow the prescribed guidelines.
   (3) Workers shall be given prior notice of redundancy exercises.

INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT

8. (1) Inspectors shall have the right to enter any workplace at reasonable times.
   (2) Employers shall keep records of employment, wages, and working conditions.
   (3) Inspectors shall issue improvement notices for violations of this Act.
   (4) Failure to comply with improvement notices may result in prosecution.

OFFENCES

9. (1) Any employer who violates the provisions of this Act shall be liable to prosecution.
   (2) Offences include failure to pay wages, failure to provide leave, and illegal termination.
   (3) Penalties shall include fines and imprisonment as prescribed by the Minister.

REGULATIONS

10. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the better carrying out of the provisions of this Act.
    (2) Regulations shall be published in the Federal Gazette.
    (3) Regulations shall come into force on the date of publication or as otherwise specified.